you
excellent
quick question does anybody know whether
we fixed sprint bot and that is making
the issues for these calls or not
because the links all the links this
week go wrong so we can fix it it is on
me I haven't gotten around to fixing it
but at the very least we're doing it
manually we can have the right links so
thank you for bringing that to our
attention
yay hello okay let's begin
hello there my name is Portia and
welcome to the ipfs weekly call
this is a call where we find out all the
interesting things that are happening in
the ipfs community how we usually do
these calls is that we start with
announcements then we get into the main
presentation and we finish up with Q & A
so we're looking for an agenda let's see
you
so Argenta is usually here
ah thank you thank you rob and before we
begin I'd also like to thank Alli for
taking notes for today so thank you all
excellent um do we have any
announcements that we like to start off
with
I have an announcement make sure my
screen
you
so tomorrow I am holding a contribute to
open source ipfs day it's going to be
from 6:30 to 9 and it's a great chance
for people to dive in into the ipfs
codebase and contribute so this is the
actual event
and if you are maintainer and if you're
interested in what we'll do during the
event I have a brief outline of the
three different tracks to contribute
I've gone to contributing events before
and in many cases I was not able to
actually contribute or I was at not that
level so in order to not have that
frustration for the people who are
arriving um I broke this event up into
three events I mean three tracks so I
will give a presentation of what is ipfs
and what we've been doing so far and
then I will break it up into three
different tracks which is what is get
for the beginner so this is B I'm trying
to make this as beginner-friendly as
possible the second track for people who
aren't familiar with our project
it's ipfs how can I use it so even for
the folks who are not able to contribute
they'll be able to understand what is
ipfs and look at some example
applications that use ipfs and for
everyone else I'm going to add some more
links but I have contributing to ipfs
first issues which include contribution
guidelines and it also includes issues
that are labeled as easy so if you have
I mean if you're a maintainer of ipfs
project and you would like some help you
can put it file an issue here under
under contribute to open source project
ipfs and we'll try to get some people
tomorrow to look at the project and
hopefully contribute and hopefully land
in a commit
so that um that is me does anyone else
have yes it's from 6:30 to 9 CET does
anyone else have any announcements
before we begin
if you do you'll raise your hand
you
let's see I don't see any raised hands
Portia my militia Nana taught was if
there's any way for people who are not
physically present in Berlin to take
advantage of all the work you're putting
together to make this event happen
I will so this is a first event and
we're not going to livestream that being
said we are going to post the
presentation of what does I professed
and such and for people who are working
on the je s ipfs or working on go ipfs
if you can just like look at some of the
pull requests and just look it over and
see if you can actually commit it that
will be great for our next event we're
trying to figure out if it'd be feasible
for us to actually stream the event live
awesome
okay I see that this issue's not public
so on I will find a place to make this
issue public so that everyone can
actually look at it and actually put in
comments and such so thank you Matt any
other comments or announcements
which is in gallery view weekends know
already thank you and we are going to
get into our main presentation from Jake
and he's going to show us some of the
awesome work he's been doing with the
live p2p JavaScript API so Jake please
take it away
share the screen
yeah so about two weeks ago we released
Jaya slip ptb Oh 24 and so we're just
going to kind of go over what are the
major things in that release there are a
lot of bug fixes and stability
improvements in there as well
but we're gonna go over the high level
stuff and see if anybody has questions
so the big things that went out with
that were finally delegated peer and
content routing I previously demoed that
in ipfs All Hands so we won't be demoing
it today but I've got links in the
presentation which will share out that
you can go and there is a working
example in Jay s Lib PTP so you can look
at that and pull it down and play with
it we also have circuit relay has been
enabled by default lit p2p and Lapidus
which are now state machines and then
CAD DHT now has Interop with go for ipfs
so yeh let's talk about those yeah so
delegated routing like what are we
trying to accomplish with that because a
lot of times we have the we can use the
DHT and we get a lot of this out of the
box with the DHT but there are some
instances where the DHT doesn't get us
everything so a couple scenarios for
this are low resource nodes nodes that
are in maybe IOT devices or restrict
browser space that really don't have the
resources to handle maintaining a DHT
this supports that or low availability
nodes this is going to be probably a
very common thing with browsers where
they're you know you turn on you create
some content whether it's in pure pad or
something like that you create a new pad
and then you close your browser down you
shut your laptop down now nobody is able
to get that content anymore
pure pad is working on like pinning
services to solve that but this also
provide its ways for us to have another
node provide our content so when we
register as a provider we actually have
another node come fetch our content and
then serve it themselves so this is a
great thing for like the Gateway nodes
who everybody a lot of people connect to
that we can have leverage of them as
potential providers have them pull our
content and then if we're creating
content compare pad or something
that we know that as it's served well
elsewhere when we shut our laptops down
and then custom writing needs there's
very likely going to be the more people
start using IP FS and let p2p they may
have different needs for providing
content and for finding peers they may
have maybe specific business needs
whatever that is with Lib p2p the
delegate routers are all part of the
custom peer and content routing so
people will be able to create their own
for that and then supply those and we'll
run through a number of them to serve up
that content so there is an example on
github I'll just pop this open real
quick so you can see it is in the J
asleep p2p repo it has all the code
there you can run through it simple
working one thing to note right now this
is dependent on a update to go ipfs
which is pending for it to work against
a running gateway node but it will work
out of the box as long as you point it
to an IP FS nodes that supports the
endpoints currently Jas ipfs API doesn't
support that because we don't have refs
built-in and refs are what's needed to
actually register another person to
provide your content so if you go and
say hey provide this content for me it
has no way of automatically like going
and fetching and pulling your content so
there we would need to change how that
works or introduce refs to JSI PFS the
delegate modules for peer and content
routing they're already on NPM you can
go use them pull them down yeah circuit
relay so one of the things we noticed is
we in both go and jaea slippy to be we
weren't turning on circuit relay dialing
by default so if you didn't speak the
same over the same transport as another
node you wouldn't be able nobody would
be able to dial to you even if you were
connected to a relay that could
translate that communication for you
nobody was trading at home
default so we went ahead and flipped
that on one thing we didn't do is turn
on hop because that registers you as a
relay so we didn't turn that on because
that can provide a lot of second cause a
lot of resource resource constraints
because you're relaying a bunch of
communications that typically we tried
to do that reserve that for knows who
can handle that kind of throughput well
click maybe yeah here we go all right
state machine updates so Jess live p2p
and Lapidus which are all state machines
now and the reason we did that is so
that we could get better flow control
both at the start stop layer as well as
like the connection layer so in with
this update we expose a new dial FSM
method in Jace lupita P in what that
does is rather than getting a like
normal interface connection you actually
get a state machine connection which
enables you to hook into a bunch of
events they're linked here the variety
of events it's like warning events so we
got a lot of requests for hey I this
thing says that circuit failed and
nobody was able to connect to it so and
we didn't get enough errors from all of
the different transport failures that
could have happened so now it will emit
additional warning errors so that you
can listen to those and then better
diagnose what's going on and make better
decisions about that with that we also
introduced on the state machine
connection we introduced a closed method
because previously we didn't have a
closed method on the normal connection
and so it was kind of a annoying for
users to be able to close the connection
this makes that a lot easier so as soon
as you get that state machine you're
done with the connection you just call
closed and it will shut it down and the
other side will hang up and it's a lot
cleaner we also improved debug logging
for connection
because this was this was a big pain
point for a lot of developers so there's
now a lippy to be con setting that you
can set and that will actually log out
much better information and I will just
pop over and try change my screen real
quick so we can see that in action so
this is just the the p2p chat example so
I'm just going to go ahead can everybody
see that way alright so with that we can
go ahead and just run debug we're
listening for a wild card on the Lib PD
PD connections for the source listener
that will boot up in our other window we
will do that for the dialer and you'll
see these messages spamming out I'll go
ahead and make this one window bigger oh
no that's not very okay so we can see
that we have messages here tells you
which node is this node is dialing out
it's dialing to this other node it's
going over the TCP support when it's
successfully dialed if it successfully
privatized the connection if it's
finished crypto which crypto it's
selecting when crypto is done and then
just every step of that process is a
state machine any time it's state is
changing or is in process we log that
out so you can get a lot more verbose
debug logging to figure out what's going
on with the connections and I will
switch back so with that we also with
the state machines for Lib p2p start and
stop states are now idempotent we had
issues with users where they were trying
to they wanted to know if the lid p2p
node was started
so they would have listened or they were
doing some like Genki calls because the
callback stuff which will be
illuminating hopefully in the not too
distant future but this solves that by
if you want to know if live p2p is
started just call start wait for
callback and it will done it be done
it's already started it will handle that
for you and just say it's already done
so that should make that a lot easier to
deal with and then the last thing CAD
DHT interrupt so Bosco has done a ton of
work working on getting the bug fixes
and API improvements for CAD DHT and
Lapita P this has removed a lot of
blockers also for the implementation for
IP NS which is getting closer and closer
so working in JSA PFS so awesome work
bashful on that and then our next step
is going to be turning on the DHT by
default in JSI PFS because right now
it's experimental and hopefully very
soon we'll see that is no longer
experimental and just running all the
time so you can get peers and content
yay
does anybody have questions about
anything thank you okay if you have
questions if you could put it in a chat
that'd be great we'll start with dubby
Hey awesome work super exciting update
thank you so much for doing oh like on
your tests always a net reversal no
problem do you get lots of success
dialing to other nodes that are behind a
photo today or yeah so ultimately when
you're doing delegate routing the first
thing you do is your bootstrapping to
bootstrap to single notes typically this
is a gateway node so this is something
that is it's still a problem with NAT
reversal but this is it's a lot more
specific so that if you're an
environment where you can
control your port mappings you can
delegate hey I'm going to be dialing out
to this Gateway node and I'm going to be
doing an HTTP API request to that node
that's the advantage there is as long as
you're able to talk to that one node you
don't have to worry about talking to the
rest of the network because you're
registering it as your provider I'm in
fetching content from it question
not necessarily my question was
specifically after you do the the
content routing right like you get a
lease of peers and those peers probably
our other people's desktops so now your
desktop has to die out and that's like
where the net reversal problem really
and my question is is there any test to
see like the level of connectivity from
a node on gpfs to the rest of the
network busy use IPC be a whole bunch a
does it defaults to secretary like so we
don't have tcp hole punching into ATP
yet that's one of the things that we
want to look at getting added in the
near-future circuit relay was a big
thing that we wanted to make sure was on
by default to help with a lot of that
because that is a huge problem of being
able to do with that we also have the
nat manager work which we're going to
try to be working on for early next year
to help get around hope with some of
that tcp hole punching another great
opportunity there for like avoiding
second relay is by just checking in on
UTP like it seems like you do a lot of
updates recently and then probably as
the bug fix that we needed and i qtp
already as hole punching by design and
so HTTP so it makes things simpler
something worth checking out okay I will
not steal more time there's like three
thousand questions that I have two
questions one is just a request for
clarification when you say Libby 2p is a
state machine to define what you mean by
that
but then my question
is is around delegated routing you the
way you described it it sounded like the
node that you're delegating to is
actually holding on to that content for
some amount of time is that true or is
it just repeating your provide
statements and providing routing to you
as a new yeah so I'll answer in reverse
order so for the delegate routing when
you provide content and you make that
call that HTTP call out to your Delia
node say hey I want to provide this
content that node will then come back
and it fetches the content from you and
becomes a provider and then it registers
as a provider for that content so once
that transaction has happened you could
shut down and never turn your note on
again but you that content will exist on
the network well so the main computer is
that then it's basically providing a mic
pinning service so then is there is that
I guess my confusion is is it's almost
even though it's a lip feeder P feature
it's almost more like an IP FS pinning
service feature like because you're
providing this yeah so this isn't this
is very dependent on ipfs so it's it's
like a routing plugin for ipfs that
plugs into the p2p so and this is why we
introduced like the custom routing
because there are probably specific lit
p2p use cases for people that aren't
using IP FS where they might want to
build their own solution around that and
then they would be able to go and create
their own content pure pre routers for
that ok yeah for people who don't know
what a state machine is like simple
definition of what do you mean by that
yeah so one of the things that we run
into with a slim p2p for a while and
even some stuff with JSF EFS is like
transition of states and controlling
what what state connections were in when
they were dialing and so what state
machine allows us to do is it allows us
to initiate transitions and so we can go
and we say hey let p2p node I want you
you start and then depending on what
state that note is currently in will
determine the action of it so if it
stopped it will move into a starting
it'll transition into starting and then
it will do a bunch of accidents and once
that's complete it transitions to
started and so if you call start on it
again and this is the item potent thing
of if you continue to call the BTB start
if it's already started it says yep I'm
started I'm done you can go on with it
and the same thing for stopping and what
this allowed us to do implementing it in
the connection is we actually had a fun
issue and a slip p2p where the we didn't
enforce encryption on incoming
connections so when it came in if the
node didn't negotiate and say okay I
want sekai oh we wouldn't enforce that
it's so now it can actually go on and
say no I'm going to forcefully go
through that state like I've dialed
we've successfully dialed now I'm moving
into the crypto phase and if you try to
use a different protocol that's not in
the crypto protocols it will fill the
connection oh okay Ally
next question oh yeah on relay and hots
if I wanted to run a PT node as a relay
can I configure which nodes that I'm
gonna relay for is there a way to do
that
not currently currently that's just a
global that you're just registering as a
global relay relay for everyone yeah
yeah okay really for the greater good
yeah Jonny crunch next question
yeah actually had three questions one is
for the states are you using IPL D no so
what we're doing is we're just using a
library called FSM events and it just
helps manage our state transition
internally that's Jason yeah I think
divvied my mission day you to be this
support we don't have UDP support yet I
think there is a transport somewhere
that's been kind of dead for a while but
I think that's one of our upcoming
priorities I think that might be in our
roadmap discussion for next year is
getting that UDP support and lastly
which crypto algorithms do you support
so currently are you talking about four
keys or just imagine definitely sorry
field what about Edie two five five one
nine or a sec p25 6k 1 so that is coming
we have I've got a pure a pull request
open for the e25 everyone nine keys
the only issue there is lip PE the
keychain which we use mostly in ksi PFS
that currently X needs to export the
keys to save them into the keychain and
the only key that has export support
right now is RSA so I just need to go
fix that but my goal is to have support
for that released by the end of the year
cool all right Allen and last question
goes to dahveed so Allen do you have a
sorry I'm terrible at let me button what
does is is J asleep p2p using dial FSM
by default now so yes it anytime you
call we actually like melded a lot of
the logic so if you call dial dial will
actually in turn call dial protocol
which in turn calls separate dial FSM it
might not yet actually might be lying I
don't need to look at that but the goal
is to turn that all in and white blue
and move to the
a sink interrater work which hopefully
will have some open proposals for that
soon that will just move all of that
logic into that to just simplify that
API
and last question Bobby so it's not
necessarily a question it just like two
quick points for clarification by the
way open Bazaar is happy to hear that
about the new keys added support that's
for that I know that also excited so in
terms like clarification so two things
we will not directly support UDP as a
transport for a peer-to-peer and that's
because like we boutta peer design
assumes a lot of like stream based
protocols and so you have to have some
kind of notion of the second circuit in
a stream so so they're like all the
clips that we don't all the providing
etcetera words we do have a side quests
of like enabling packet switching on on
only peer-to-peer and there's a lot of
work expecially I've done by wires and
others and when we get there then we
will have a UDP what we can have today
is UTP and I know like these three
weather elements with very pretty much
like the same letters just confuse
everyone
but like UTP ease that transport
developed by the beam current group for
BitTorrent that is on top of UDP but
adds the the stream flavor that I think
likely to the pyramids so you can get
the benefits of UDP like it's going to
be on a UDP port you can get the hole
punching etc but I can get as the
properties that you need to actually use
it hope it was useful information the
other clarification is people were
asking about the difference between
content routing and pre loading notes
just like a very quick distinction so in
a leap you to peer feel today we are
this concept of like records and you
know my name record for a penis can be a
provider's record for the DHT for like
saying about you store some file and
those things like they don't know the
structure there is the plan to move them
into I feel the align but I a lot yes
and and that's the thing that gets used
by content so like when I'm asking other
nodes to provide a file or when I'm when
I'm adding a file to a professor I'm
going to do a provide query and so I'm
going to
other nodes in the network that I have
this file and then is about puddings
provided records out there then that's
what goes into this like delegated
routing scheme it doesn't move the file
to the other like you still all the file
then there is another concept on ipfs
lens which is free loving and
pre-loading is when I am adding or
touching fouls from I can use some
preload notes which I like nodes running
on beefy machines with a lot of storage
and bandwidth and with more CPU RAM etc
to fetch these file for me so that like
when I'm fetching it from a low power
device or a constrained runtime like a
browser you can have nodes effective
responsibilities I'm just like
assembling all the pieces so that they
can ban or extreme the file faster to
you it's not necessary for the full
operation but I can something that just
makes the experience a lot like the
proceed speed increases dramatically but
like this constants are different like
when you do a provide in whipped with
EPO and you are not setting the power
anywhere just I just want to make sure
like we we are like here for everyone
and I hope it was helpful any questions
maybe Jacob Akira and the extra points
that go for it you people that ask a
question on I achieve now make more
sense I'm going to put a video up later
and if anyone has any questions after
the presentation they can put the
questions below the video we are going
to conclude the ipfs weekly call thank
you very much
Baek thank you very much for your
presentation and I hope to see everyone
next week have a good week bye bye
alright y'all thank you for the awesome
work